---
layout: post
title: Write honestly
---

I’ve noticed that there’s a part of me that views writing as an outlet to seek validation from the world. When that part takes over, I start to sound like a caricature of myself. A version of me who’s got the world figured out. This Ego-driven part desperately wants to be seen as competent so it feels the need to put on a costume and speak with authority.

If I give this part free reign over my writing, it begins to distort it. I’ll inflate the truth more. Make polarizing statements (even ones I don’t agree with). Structure essays in the same way.

I stop sounding like Hussam.

Seeking validation is the modus operandi of social media platforms and I wanted to play that game, so last January, I decided to take a Twitter audience building course. The course gave me the courage to start sharing my work online but I wasn’t prepared to have to deal with the pressure to perform by writing consistently.

If you’re trying to build an audience, your follower count is your primary indicator of success. It’s more or less a representation of how good you are at capturing, and retaining, people’s attention with your content.

The audience building course taught writing frameworks based on a formulaic, almost Silicon Valley-like, approach to producing (and ‘validating’) content ideas, writing catchy hooks and then structuring content in a templated fashion to keep readers engaged. The consequence? All 400+ course members (myself included) wrote content that sounded exactly the same.

Why? The course missed something important: Sure, maybe audience building can be solved like a math equation, but writing is an artistic endeavour. That capability can’t be taught. It must be cultivated by each writer.

So instead of trying to sound like somebody I’m not all the time, I’m trying to tell the truth more. To be honest about how I’m really feeling, and talk like a human being. Interestingly enough, when I do that, my body starts to shake nervously. To me, that’s a sign that I’m doing something write, because it means I’m being vulnerable and real.

It means, even for a split second, I gave you a glimpse into the real Hussam.

My hope is to be able to do that for a longer.
